Add `How Zetera became a Medal Hunter` news post (#7949)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2022-09-01-how-zetera-became-a-medal-hunter.md

---
layout: post
title: "How Zetera became a Medal Hunter"
date: 2022-09-31 00:00:00 +0000
---

Join us for a history lesson and a story about an elusive medal and one man's journey to unravel it's secret!

> Before we begin with this story, we first must learn about the history of medals. Medals were first introduced in early August 2008, with their original goal being to serve as an achievement system that could (but never did) become a part of osu!'s "story mode". The first ever medals to get added were the playcount medals and since they were retroactively given to all users that already had the needed count, some users like [Echo](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/431) and [Saturos](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3781) had acquired them on pretty much on release as they were playing at the time, which updated their playcount and granted them the medals.

Author: they are just two examples

Soon after the playcount medals came the first batch of beatmap pack medals, and while some do not exist anymore, there are some that you can still acquire! Some examples would be the [Internet Pack vol.1](https://osekai.net/medals/?medal=Internet!+Pack+vol.1), [Anime Pack vol.1](https://osekai.net/medals/?medal=Anime+Pack+vol.1), [Video Game Pack vol.1](https://osekai.net/medals/?medal=Video+Game+Pack+vol.1) and [Rhythm Game Pack vol.1](https://osekai.net/medals/?medal=Rhythm+Game+Pack+vol.1). As the game got updated, medals would become more than just a way to keep track of your pack completion with hush-hush medals. What are hush-hush medals you might ask? Well, the [osu! wiki](/wiki/Main_Page) defines them as the following:

> Hush-Hush medals are "secret" medals awarded for pulling off very specific feats, which are not explicitly told to the player (hence the name). These feats can range anywhere from completing a beatmap under peculiar circumstances to setting a score with an unusual mod combination.

> Throughout the years new hush-hush medals were extremely rare, and it was only in late 2016 that medals started being released in batches after [this newspost](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-08-17-new-hush-hush-medals) and since then would start receiving semi-regular additions.

Author: From my research they are just released sporadically, no special timing behind them (except maybe for Halloween?)

> Throughout the years new hush-hush medals were extremely rare, and it was only in late 2016 that medals started being released in batches after [this newspost](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-08-17-new-hush-hush-medals) and since then would start receiving semi-regular additions.

Reviewer: which is why i asked for any sort of average. maybe how many batches there have been so far could be mentioned instead (again i'm just suggesting)

> Throughout the years new hush-hush medals were extremely rare, and it was only in late 2016 that medals started being released in batches after [this newspost](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-08-17-new-hush-hush-medals) and since then would start receiving semi-regular additions.

Author: https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-10-29-halloween-cometh
https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-08-17-new-hush-hush-medals
https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2018-10-23-halloween-2018-descends
https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2019-10-31-osu-spooktacular-halloween-special

2016: 2
2017: 0
2018: 1
2019: 1
All but the 1 additional batch in 2016 were added on Halloween, and @Ephemeralis teased that medals would be coming this month, breaking the streak.

This brings us to the main character of this story, [Zetera](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/587737). Zetera is a 24 year old osu! player from Germany, according to him osu! has been a part of half of his life and his join date certainly backs that up. In that time he has done quite a lot for the community, described in his words as such:

> I am an ex-moderator, on-and-off contest judge, world cup commentator and a huge beatmapping nerd. And, I suppose, also a medal hunter.

So how did he get into medal hunting? It was quite simple actually, he just didn't like how unobtained medals looked like on the old websites (he described them as "huge boxes with a question mark") and would rather have had those boxes show the actual hand-drawn designs than just a question mark, older players might remember them looking like this:

> ![](https://i.imgur.com/ca5Z33V.png)

Author: I thought it could sit there as a temporary image until it's uploaded to assets.ppy.sh, but I will upload it if you don't think its a good idea to have it hotlinked at all

> ![](https://i.imgur.com/ca5Z33V.png)

Reviewer: putting it in the repo is how it's usually done yes

> ![](https://i.imgur.com/ca5Z33V.png)

Author: Done in [224a88b](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/7949/commits/224a88b688ace426e53868ec455962c93c22b8c3)

In October of 2017 a new [Halloween themed update](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2017-10-31-halloween-descends) was released for osu! and 9 new hush-hush medals were added. At that point it has been a year since a fresh batch of hush-hush medals were added into the game and finally, the community had something to work through and discover the solutions to. 

Since getting batches of medals was still new, there wasn't a lot of knowledge behind what made the medal system tick, especially because the whole system was rewritten in 2016. Nowadays the community knows exactly what to look for and how extensive the system is, but back then the community's ideas were much more abstract than what was actually possible, simply because it was really hard to gauge just how precise requirements were for any given medal. The only hint that was provided was in the flavor text for the medal that is viewable once the cursor is hovered over the medal, but even that can sometimes be considered unhelpful in figuring out the solution and some have been changed multiple times over the years.

> Despite all of the above, the community managed to figure out the solutions to all of the new medals! Well, all but one.. "The Girl in the Forest" stood unclaimed. Zetera and the community first deduced that the map that needed to be played was [Takuya](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/342372)'s set of [Pika Girl](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/40440#osu/128718) by [S3RL](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/9). He immediately went and SS'd the map, but that didn't work. Maybe a mod was required, or the map needed to be FC'd in all game modes consecutively to get the medal, but that didn't work either. Maybe it had to be an SS? He started thinking about how the system could work, what would it look for? Surely it can't check when you lost your full combo or when an SS was lost, so the only things left would be the miss count, max combo, counts of 300s, 100s, 50s and misses, playing in different modes and a couple of other things, such as at what time was the score submitted. Looking at the flavor text it read out the following: "First Generation in more than one ways", that lead him to think that it might be Pokémon related or perhaps the first generation of influantial mappers, in the end it wasn't much of a help to him. Out of ideas, he reached out to [Ephemeral](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102335), osu!'s "community manager" and instead of receiving a hint, Ephemeral would go on to create the [following thread](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/662279?n=1) to the osu! forum:

Author: I was flip-flopping between "the community" and "Zetera and the community", but I think "the community" is more appropriate

> Despite all of the above, the community managed to figure out the solutions to all of the new medals! Well, all but one.. "The Girl in the Forest" stood unclaimed. Zetera and the community first deduced that the map that needed to be played was [Takuya](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/342372)'s set of [Pika Girl](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/40440#osu/128718) by [S3RL](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/9). He immediately went and SS'd the map, but that didn't work. Maybe a mod was required, or the map needed to be FC'd in all game modes consecutively to get the medal, but that didn't work either. Maybe it had to be an SS? He started thinking about how the system could work, what would it look for? Surely it can't check when you lost your full combo or when an SS was lost, so the only things left would be the miss count, max combo, counts of 300s, 100s, 50s and misses, playing in different modes and a couple of other things, such as at what time was the score submitted. Looking at the flavor text it read out the following: "First Generation in more than one ways", that lead him to think that it might be Pokémon related or perhaps the first generation of influantial mappers, in the end it wasn't much of a help to him. Out of ideas, he reached out to [Ephemeral](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102335), osu!'s "community manager" and instead of receiving a hint, Ephemeral would go on to create the [following thread](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/662279?n=1) to the osu! forum:

Author: I applied your review in [07fa898](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/7949/commits/07fa898231484fa92e69b14b6ab836f42e6e33f5) along with changing it to the community and adding ```Zetera then immediately went and SS'd the map, but that didn't work.```

> It's been roughly a week since the Halloween medal release, and just about every medal outside of one has been conclusively claimed and figured out.
> Originally, I thought that the Firmament Moves would be the baffler for most people. Apparently not!
> So, let's have a little fun with this, and up the ante a little bit.

> And "up the ante a little bit" he did. A bounty was set on the medal, stating that the first person who unlocks the medal and messages him with the correct set of criteria required to unlock the medal would receive a "Medal Hunter" user title, which would the first of it's kind, and to this day would remain as such.

Author: Can you edit out the `the` in the 2nd sentence and I will add it to the batch

> And "up the ante a little bit" he did. A bounty was set on the medal, stating that the first person who unlocks the medal and messages him with the correct set of criteria required to unlock the medal would receive a "Medal Hunter" user title, which would the first of it's kind, and to this day would remain as such.

Reviewer: woops

---
layout: post
title: "How Zetera became a Medal Hunter"

> date: 2022-09-31 00:00:00 +0000

Reviewer: ah, yes, september 31

Author: just a placeholder lol didnt even realize what I wrote, I will change it later

> It's been roughly a week since the Halloween medal release, and just about every medal outside of one has been conclusively claimed and figured out.
> Originally, I thought that the Firmament Moves would be the baffler for most people. Apparently not!

> > So, let's have a little fun with this, and up the ante a little bit.

Reviewer: i'm pretty sure these paragraphs should be spaced like so but i also remember that remark complains about it <.< (@cl8n ?)
```
> ...
> 
> ...
>
> ...
```

Author: Discussed on [Discord ](https://discord.com/channels/188630481301012481/218677502141399041/1016278123056218182)and applied via [816c1f7](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/7949/commits/816c1f78326548bd1506e6a0976cf9f42b46e469)

You might ask yourself what Zetera meant when he said that he kept "dropping out of the 90% medals club". Well, in 2019 the medal hunter community created [Osekai](https://osekai.net/home/), a website made for alternative rankings, in-depth profile information, medal solutions etc. On their [Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/8qpNTs6) there are "clubs" that people "join" by receiving a Discord role based upon the number of medals they have. The club Zetera is referring to is the 90% medal club, which at the time of writing this currently consists of [only 44 people](https://osekai.net/rankings/?ranking=Medals&type=Users) in the entire game!

> If you are interested in medal hunting definitely look into Osekai and join the Medal Hunters Discord server, and definitely stay on the lookout for new medals as Ephemeral teased new [hush-hush](https://twitter.com/osekaiapp/status/1564610856381464580) the community found [some more medals](https://twitter.com/osekaiapp/status/1564871086617071616) by guessing the links to them!

Reviewer: dunno if the last part should be in the article if they haven't been released or teased yet (@Ephemeralis)

```suggestion
If you are interested in medal hunting definitely look into Osekai and join the [Medal Hunters Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/8qpNTs6), and definitely stay on the lookout for new medals, especially since Ephemeral has just teased [a new Hush-Hush medal](https://twitter.com/osekaiapp/status/1564610856381464580) and with the community discovering [even more upcoming medals](https://twitter.com/osekaiapp/status/1564871086617071616) by finding their assets on the website.
```

Author: i mean it was tweeted publicly so I guess it'd be a open secret?

Reviewer: doesn't mean it should be on a news post. just mentioning this because there was a [pr](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/5736) that was going to add hush-hush medals and their known unlock requirements to the wiki, but they had to be removed even though there is a whole community that knows this stuff, which in itself is fine

Reviewer 2: i'd avoid mentioning the fact hint solutions are available there outright, though phrasing it as a community of people interested in medals should be fine

Author: Wala's concerns were addressed by [Eph ](https://discord.com/channels/188630481301012481/218677502141399041/1016089780842406031)in the Discord, as for what Eph said it has been applied in [bc9d0cc](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/7949/commits/bc9d0cc8445cc93145a4ab04ce28e99991fe7269)

> Lastly, the full conversation I had with Zetera goes into much more detail about hunting medals in general, and I highly suggest you [check it out](https://gist.github.com/0x84f/5b93172d0ca1c3bf975eb8b40faa3474) if this article was interesting to you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, the full conversation with Zetera goes into much more detail about hunting medals in general, and I highly suggest you [check it out](https://gist.github.com/0x84f/5b93172d0ca1c3bf975eb8b40faa3474) if this article was interesting to you.
```

Every time new ones were added, he'd try and find the meaning behind them and eventually found himself building a habit out of it. Discord and the likes did not exist back in those days, so a lot of time was spent hanging out on the forums, `#osu` and in-game DMs, with lots of players often coming together and collaborating to work out the solutions together.

In October of 2017, a new [Halloween-themed update](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2017-10-31-halloween-descends) was released for osu!, bringing with it a total of 9 new Hush-Hush medals. It had been a year since the last batch of Hush-Hush medals at that point and finally, the community had more cryptic puzzles (in the form of medal flair texts and icons) to chew on.

Since getting batches of medals was still new, there wasn't a lot of knowledge behind what made the medal system tick, especially since the whole thing was rewritten back in 2016. Nowadays, the community knows exactly what to look for and how extensive the system is, but back then the community's ideas were much more abstract than what was actually possible, simply because it was really hard to gauge just how precise requirements were for any given medal.

> Figuring out how to solve a medal is often a complicated process, as the only real hints provided are the medal's name, icon and some mouse-over text known internally as a 'flair'. At times, even these are not enough, and some medals have even had all three of these things changed over the years.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Figuring out how to solve a medal is often a complicated process, as the only real hints provided are the medal's name, icon and some mouse-over text known internally as a *flair*. At times, even these are not enough, and some medals have even had all three of these things changed over the years.
```

Despite these challenges, the community managed to figure out the solutions to all of 2017's new medals save for one: "The Girl in the Forest". The community first deduced that the relevant map was [Takuya](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/342372)'s set of [Pika Girl](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/40440#osu/128718) by [S3RL](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/9) after linking the hints and flair text back to it. Zetera then immediately went and SS'd the map, but that didn't work. Maybe a mod was required, or the map needed to be FC'd in all game modes consecutively to get the medal, but that didn't work either. Maybe it had to be an SS on all game modes?

> The limits of the medal system needed to be examined more closely, albeit with educated guesswork and deduction. Surely it can't check when you lost your full combo or when an SS was lost, so the only things left would be the miss count, max combo, counts of 300s, 100s, 50s and misses, playing in different modes and a couple of other things, such as at what time was the score submitted. At the time, the flair text read as "First Generation in more than one ways", which lead Zetera to think that it might be related to Pokémon or perhaps the first generation of influential mappers, but in the end, found himself stumped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The limits of the medal system needed to be examined more closely, albeit with educated guesswork and deduction. Surely it can't check when you lost your full combo or when an SS was lost, so the only things left would be the miss count, max combo, counts of 300s, 100s, 50s and misses, playing in different modes and a couple of other things, such as at what time was the score submitted. At the time, the flair text read as "First Generation in more than one ways", which lead Zetera to think that it might be related to Pokémon or perhaps the first generation of influential mappers, but in the end, he found himself stumped.
```

The post also shed some light on how the new medal system works and what the loose criteria would be for not just The Girl in the Forest, but all medals included in the Halloween update and going forward. Following this, Zetera descended into a maddening 5-hour search of trial and error. Maybe the max combo or accuracy needed to match numbers relevant to the first generation of Pokémon games? Maybe the accuracy needed to match the release date of the first game? No, the HP drain was too high to achieve a ~19% accuracy run. "How many Pokémon were in the first game?" he thought, maybe there needs to be a certain amount of 300s, 100s and 50s...

After a gruelling slog of trial and error, he finally found himself staring at the fruits of his labor, and after sending a forum PM to Ephemeral with the correct answer, he was officially dubbed as osu!'s first Medal Hunter. He was really happy about receiving the medal, but he felt like there were other people in the community that deserved this medal more than him, and had to say this during our chat:

> > User titles and I are a complicated topic. It's not really part of this interview's topic, but I did a lot of different things for the community in the hopes of leaving a mark somewhere(...), because if there was something I wanted more than anything else, it was the Elite Mapper title.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> User titles and I are a complicated topic. It's not really part of this interview's topic, but I did a lot of different things for the community in the hopes of leaving a mark somewhere [...] because if there was something I wanted more than anything else, it was the Elite Mapper title.
```

While the things listed here are not the full extent of what Zetera has done for the community (you can read more in our [full conversation](https://gist.github.com/0x84f/5b93172d0ca1c3bf975eb8b40faa3474)), his efforts have been great and appreciated by the community. As for the "90% medals club", in 2019 the medal hunter community created [Osekai](https://osekai.net/home/), a website made for alternative rankings, in-depth profile information and much more, all based (unsurprisingly) around medals! On their [Medal Hunters Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/8qpNTs6), there are "clubs" that people join by receiving a Discord role based on the number of medals they have. The club at the time of writing consists of [only 44 people](https://osekai.net/rankings/?ranking=Medals&type=Users) in the entire game!

If you're interested in delving into medal hunting yourself, you'll find that **3** new Hush-Hush medals have just released and are ready to be devoured!

![](https://assets.ppy.sh/medals/web/all-secret-lightless.png) ![](https://assets.ppy.sh/medals/web/all-secret-deliberation.png) ![](https://assets.ppy.sh/medals/web/all-secret-when-you-see-it.png)

> If puzzling over flairs and hints isn't your thing, there are **3** beatmap packs to achieve as well just by finishing the packs linked to them. Check them out below (and you can even click on an image to be taken to its respective pack!):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If puzzling over flairs and hints isn't your thing, there are **3** beatmap packs to achieve as well just by finishing the maps in them. Check them out below (and you can even click on an image to be taken to the corresponding pack!):
```

![https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/packs/2483](https://assets.ppy.sh/medals/web/all-packs-aitsuki.png) ![https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/packs/2482](https://assets.ppy.sh/medals/web/all-packs-maduk.png) ![https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/packs/2481](https://assets.ppy.sh/medals/web/all-packs-vocaloid.png)

> Don't want to hunt for the medals alone? Join the Medal Hunters Discord server and check out Osekai *(please note that the website contains solutions to medals, so if you'd rather solve them yourselves the site might not be for you)*!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't want to hunt for the medals alone? Join the Medal Hunters Discord server and check out Osekai! *(Please note that the website contains solutions to medals, so if you'd rather solve them yourselves the site might not be for you.)*
```
